# Decoding-Ada

Toy project for Nabokov's _Ada, or Ardor_.

## Source text

> For their correspondence in the first period of separation, Van and Ada had
invented a code which they kept perfecting during the next fifteen months after
Van left Ardis. ... Codes are a bore to describe; yet a few basic details must
be, reluctantly, given.

> One-letter words remained undisguised. In any longer word each letter was
replaced by the one succeeding it in the alphabet at such an ordinal point--
second, third, fourth, and so forth--which corresponded to the number of
letters in that word. Thus "love," a four-letter word, became "_pszi_" ("p"
being the fourth letter after "l" in the alphabetic series, "s" the fourth
after "o", et cetera), whilst, say, "lovely" (in which the longer stretch made
it necessary, in two instances, to resume the alphabet after exhausting it)
became "_ruBkrE_," where the letters overflowing into the new alphabetic series
were capitalized: B, for instance, standing for "v" whose substitute had to be
the sixth letter ("lovely" consists of six letters) coming after it: _wxyzAB_,
and "y" going still deeper into that next series: _zABCDE_.

> ...

> In the second period of separation, beginning in 1886, the code was radically
altered. Both Van and Ada still knew by heart the seventy-two lines of
Marvell's "The Garden" and the forty lines of Rimbaud's "MÃ©moire." It was from
these two texts that they chose the letters of the words they needed. For
example, l2.11. l1.2.20. l2.8 meant "love," with "l" and the number following
it denoting the line in the Marvell poem, and the next number giving the
position of the letter in that line, l2.11, meaning "eleventh letter in second
line." I hold this to be pretty clear; and when, for the sake of misleading
variety, the Rimbaud poem was used, the letter denoting the line would simply
be capitalized.

Vladimir Nabokov, _Ada, or Ardor_, Part 1, Chapter 26, p160-161.

## Description

This program takes as input a text file, encoded in the manner described above,
and outputs the translation.

### A note on the edition

Page numbers are taken from my paperback, which is the February 1990 First
Vintage International Edition.

